Episode 19, George.
It took all of my concentration to avoid the potholes
on the abysmal highway to the north of Ankhazastan.
Meanwhile, Elizabeth kept glancing at the side-view mirror.
For the past hour, we had been discussing whether or not to help Miki and
we had come to the conclusion that we should – we had given our promises.
And I suppose we each had our reasons.
“Do you think that grey car is following us?” Elizabeth asked suddenly.
“How would I know?
The cars here all look the same,” I replied.
There were only a few cars on the highway, and they were all
grey and all the same design, based on a Soviet-era Lada.
We stopped at one of the few petrol stations, and Elizabeth’s grey car passed us and drove on ahead.
“Just me being paranoid, I guess,” Elizabeth commented.
About twenty minutes later, we pulled into the town of Borokov, our destination, and
we drove to the shabby but picturesque town square and parked near the old clock tower.
There was a small café with a group of labourers dining al fresco.
They were wearing drab clothes and enjoying a simple lunch and, of course, some vodka.
As we sat down, we could feel everyone staring at us.
Outsiders.
When we asked in English for a menu, all conversation
stopped and the waitress just stared at us blankly.
But a man who had sat down just after us said, “May I help you to order?” in flawless English.
“I recommend the bishbirmik – meat and pasta.”
“Thank you so much; we’ll take it, and two coffees,” I said, “and can
you translate for us if we ask some questions to the people here?”
“My pleasure,” said the man with a wide grin.
He seemed better dressed than the others, as if he was also a visitor to the village.
What’s more, the villagers seemed just as surprised to see him as I was.
“I just want to ask them if they’re happy with the way things are going in Ankhazastan,” I said.
The man turned to the men and said something in Ankhaz.
One of the group gave a short and curt reply.
“They say life is a little hard but they are optimistic for the future,” the man translated.
But there was an older man who had obviously drunk more vodka than the others, and he
said something with a bit more passion, slapping the table with his hand as he said so.
I heard Miki’s name mentioned.
“He said that, er…” our translator struggled briefly, “he said that he works hard and some
of his money is taken by corrupt LOCAL officials, but President Miki is going to fix this.”
Oh, I’m sure that’s what he said, I thought.
I had also just noticed a grey car parked just around the corner of the opposite street.
I didn’t mention it to Elizabeth because she might make a scene.
“Is it true that there is a huge prison near this town?” she asked.
This time our translator replied directly.
“No,” he laughed.
“Just the town jail where they put drunks like this old guy.”
I sighed.
Something was wrong here, but it might be wise not to ask too many more questions.